---------
37. *On the Responsiblities of the Superiors in a Convent*
---------


Chapter 01
=========
Paragraph 01
-----------
ⲉⲧⲃⲉⲡⲁⲓ̈ ϯϫⲱ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲙ̄ⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ϫⲉϯⲛⲁⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲛ̄ⲥⲁⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲥⲛⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ̄ⲛ̄ϭⲓϫ ⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲧⲟⲩⲙⲟⲩⲧⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ ϫⲉⲙⲁⲁⲩ ϩⲁⲧⲛ̄ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ [1]_ ⲙⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲙⲛ̄ⲛ̄ⲥⲱⲥ · ⲁⲩⲱ ϯⲛⲁⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲛ̄ⲥⲁⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲥⲛⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲛ̄ⲛ̄ϭⲓϫ ⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲛⲓⲙ ⲉⲧⲉⲟⲩⲛ̄ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ϭⲁⲗⲱⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲁⲧⲛ̄ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ · ⲁⲩⲱ ϯⲛⲁⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲛ̄ⲥⲁⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲥⲛⲟϥ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲉⲣⲏⲩ · ⲁⲩⲱ ϯⲛⲁⲕⲱⲧⲉ ⲛ̄ⲥⲁⲡⲉⲥⲛⲟϥ ⲛ̄ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲥ̄ ⲙ̄ⲙⲓⲛ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲥ ϫⲓⲛⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲛⲟϭ [2]_ ϣⲁⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲕⲟⲩⲓ̈ · ⲁⲩⲱ ϫⲓⲛⲧⲉⲧⲥⲏϭ ϣⲁⲧⲉⲧⲉⲟⲩⲛ̄ϭⲟⲙ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲥ ⲉϫⲉⲕⲟⲩϩⲱⲃ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ :-
::
	
	Therefore, Xtell you from God that I shall require your blood from the hands of her who is called mother with you and her who comes after her. And I shall require your blood from the hands of everyone to whom anyone is entrusted with you. And I shall require your blood, each from the other. And I shall require the blood of each one of you from her own hand, from the greatest to the least of yon, and from her who is incapable to her who is capable of completing a task. 

Paragraph 02
----------
ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲁⲛⲟⲕ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲟⲩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ̈ ϫⲉⲁⲓ̈ⲉⲓ ϣⲁⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲥⲟⲡ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲥⲛⲁⲩ · ⲁⲩⲱ ϣⲟⲙⲛ̄ⲧ [3]_ ⲁⲓ̈ϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛⲙ̄ⲙⲏⲧⲛ̄ ϩⲛ̄ⲧⲁⲧⲁⲡⲣⲟ ⲙⲁⲣⲓϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ϯ [*]_ ϩⲁⲡ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ̈ ϩⲙ̄ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲙ̄ⲙⲁⲩ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲛ̄ⲧⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲡⲉⲧⲉⲟⲩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲟⲛ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ϫⲉⲁⲓ̈ⲉⲓ ϣⲁⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ · ⲉⲁⲛⲥⲙⲓⲛⲉ ⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲇⲓⲁⲑⲏⲕⲏ ⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲙⲧⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙ̄ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲓ̄ⲥ̄ ⲉϥϩⲙⲟⲟⲥ ⲉϫⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲑⲣⲟⲛⲟⲥ ⲙ̄ⲡⲉϥⲉⲟⲟⲩ [4]_ ·
::
	
	If I am a debtor because I came to you once, or two or three times, having spoken with you by word of mouth, let me be judged by you in that place. And if you are debtors because I came to you and we. made a covenant before the Lord Jesus who sits upon the throne of his glory1 : 

Paragraph 03
----------
ⲉⲓⲧⲉ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲉⲓⲥⲏϣ · ⲉⲓⲧⲉ ⲉⲓⲧⲙⲁⲓⲏⲩ [5]_ ⲧⲁⲛⲁⲅⲕⲏ [6]_ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ̈ ⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲣⲁϯϩⲁⲡ ⲉⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲙ̄ⲡⲉϥⲙ̄ⲧⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲓ̈ϯⲥⲟ [7]_ ⲉⲧⲣⲁⲉⲓ [8]_ ϣⲁⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲛ̄ⲧⲁϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛⲙ̄ⲙⲏⲧⲛ̄ ϩⲛ̄ⲧⲁⲧⲁⲡⲣⲟ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ̄ⲧⲱⲧⲛ̄ ϩⲱⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ ϩⲁⲡⲥ̄ ⲅⲁ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲡⲉ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ϫⲓ ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲛⲉⲥϩⲃⲏⲩⲉ ⲙ̄ⲡⲉϥⲙ̄ⲧⲟ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ·
::
	
	for whether I am despised or honoured2, it is necessary that I pass judgement * upon each one of you before him, because I did not refrain from coming to you and speaking with you by word of mouth. For it is necessary for you yourselves that each one of you receive according to her works before him.

Paragraph 04
----------
ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲛ ⲣⲱ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙ̄ⲡⲁϣⲁⲓ̈ ⲛ̄ⲧⲃ̄ϣⲉ ⲉⲧⲥⲱⲣⲙ̄ ⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲡ̄ⲛ̄ⲁ̄ · ⲟⲩⲛ̄ϣⲁϫⲉ ⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲓ̈ϩⲉ ϩⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲧⲛ̄ϭⲱϣⲧ̄ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉ˻ⲡ˼ϩⲟ ⲙ̄ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲓ̄ⲥ̄ ⲙⲛ̄ⲡϩⲟ ⲛ̄ⲛⲉϥⲡⲉⲧⲟⲩⲁⲁⲃ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ · ⲏ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲩ ⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲛⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ ⲛⲁⲓ̈ ⲉⲛⲧⲁⲩⲥⲉⲩϩⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ϫⲉⲕⲁⲥ ⲉⲩⲉⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲣⲁϣⲉ ·
::
	
	But is there indeed, in spite of the amount of negligence which misleads your spirit, such an idea in your hearts as to look at the face of the Lord Jesus and the face of all his saints or towards our fathers who have gathered you in that they may see you in joy? 

Paragraph 05
----------
ⲧⲉⲛⲟⲩ ⲇⲉ ϩⲱⲱϥ ⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲛⲁⲛ [9]_ ⲛ̄ⲛⲟϭⲛⲉϭ ⲙⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲙ̄ⲕⲁϩ ⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧ ϩⲣⲁⲓ̈ ϩⲛ̄ⲙ̄ⲡⲏⲩⲉ · ⲕⲁⲓ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲁⲩⲃⲱⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲟⲟⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲩⲙⲟⲕϩ̄ ⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲙⲁⲧⲉ ⲉⲧⲃⲏⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ [10]_ · ⲉⲧⲃⲉϫⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩⲓⲏ ϣⲟⲟⲡ ⲁⲛ ⲉⲩⲥⲟⲟⲩⲧⲛ̄ · ⲟⲩⲇⲉ [11]_ ⲉⲩⲧⲃ̄ⲃⲟ [12]_ ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲑⲉ [13]_ ⲉⲧⲥⲏϩ · 
::
	
	Now, instead, you are to us3 a reproach and an affliction in heaven. For they departed from us, greatly afflicted' concerning yon, because your way is not towards uprightness nor towards purity4, as it is written.

Paragraph 06
----------
ⲏ ⲥϩⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ · ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲉϣⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ · ⲉϣϫⲉ ϩⲉ ⲉⲓ̈ⲉ ⲉⲧⲃⲉⲟⲩ ⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ϯϩⲧⲏⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲡⲁϣⲁϫⲉ ⲡⲁⲓ̈ ⲉⲛⲧⲁⲓ̈ϫⲟⲟϥ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ̄ ϩⲛ̄ⲧⲁⲧⲁⲡⲣⲟ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲥⲱⲧⲙ̄ ⲧⲏⲣⲧⲛ̄ · ϫⲉⲙ̄ⲡⲣ̄ϩⲉⲡⲗⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ϩⲁⲧⲛ̄ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ ⲁⲗⲗⲁ ⲧⲛ̄ⲛⲟⲟⲩϥ ⲛⲁⲛ {ⲥ̄ⲗ̄ⲇ̄} ⲥⲛ̄ⲧⲛ̄ⲇⲓⲁⲕⲣⲓⲛⲉ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟϥ · ⲉⲓⲧⲉ ⲛ̄ⲧⲟⲟⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩⲗ̄ⲗⲟⲓ̈ ⲉⲧⲧⲏϣ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ̄ · ⲏ ⲛ̄ⲧⲟⲟⲧⲟⲩ ⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲏⲡ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲧⲛⲏⲩ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ̄ :-
::
	
	Or is it in your heart to see us even as we wish to see you? If so, why have you not paid heed to my word which I spoke to you by word of mouth, you all hearing, ‘Do not hide anything among you from us, but communicate it to us that we may adjudge it either by means of s your elders appointed for you or by all those belonging to you who are on the way to you1.
	
Paragraph 07
----------
ⲉⲧⲃⲉⲟⲩ ⲉⲩⲁⲙⲁϩⲧⲉ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲧⲙ̄ϫⲱ ⲉⲣⲟⲛ ⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧϣⲟⲟⲡ ϩⲁⲧⲛ̄ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ · ⲙⲏ ⲛ̄ⲥⲁⲃⲏⲗ ⲁⲛ ϫⲉϥⲧⲁⲗⲏⲩ ⲁⲛ ⲉϩⲣⲁⲓ̈ ⲉϫⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲡ̄ⲛ̄ⲁ̄ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲧⲛ̄ϭⲱϣⲧ̄ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϩⲣⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲛ̄ϣⲏⲣⲉ · ⲙⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲥⲛⲏⲩ · ⲙⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲛϩⲟⲟⲩⲧ · ⲙⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲉⲓⲟⲧⲉ · ⲙⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲏⲡ ⲧⲏⲣⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲙ̄ⲙⲁⲛ ⲧⲏⲣⲛ̄ ϩⲓⲟⲩⲥⲟⲡ ϩⲙ̄ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲉⲩⲡⲱⲣϫ̄ϩⲟⲟⲩⲧ [14]_ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲥϩⲓⲙⲉ · ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲙ̄ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲡⲉⲛϩⲱⲃ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲡⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ̄ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲙ̄ⲙⲁⲩ ⲛ̄ⲑⲉ ⲉⲧϥ̄ⲟ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲥ [15]_ ·
::
	
	 Why are you hindered from telling us what goes on among you? Is it not inseparable (from the fact) that it is not borne in upon your minds that you should look upon your children, and your brethren, and your menfolk, and your io fathers, and all those belonging to you and to all of us together, in the place where male is not separated from female, and in the place where our work and yours shall be made manifest as it is8;



Paragraph 08
----------
ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲙ̄ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲡϩⲱⲃ ⲛ̄ⲛⲁⲓ̈ ⲛⲁⲟⲩⲱⲛϩ̄ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛ̄ⲕⲁⲕⲉ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ̄ⲧⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲛ̄ⲥⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲩⲉⲓⲛⲉ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟϥ ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩϭⲟⲥⲙ̄ ⲙⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲕⲣⲙ̄ⲧⲥ̄ · ⲁⲩⲱ ϩⲙ̄ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲡϩⲱⲃ ⲛ̄ⲛⲓⲕⲟⲟⲩⲉ ⲛⲁϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉϥⲟ ⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ̄ⲧⲟⲟⲩ ϩⲱⲟⲩ ⲛ̄ⲥⲉϣⲱⲡⲉ ⲉⲩⲣ̄ⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ ⲛ̄ⲑⲉ ⲙ̄ⲡⲟⲩⲟⲉⲓⲛ [16]_ ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲑⲉ ⲉⲧⲥⲏϩ :-
::
	
	and in the place where the work of-some shall be made manifest as being dark and they too shall be like it in darkness and gloom; is and in the place where the work of others shall be light and they too shall be shining like the light6, as it is written. 
	
	
Paragraph 09
------------
  
ⲏ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲛ ⲛ̄ⲧⲟϥ ⲉⲥϩⲙ̄ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧ ⲉⲧⲣⲉⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ϭⲱϣⲧ̄ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉϩⲣⲙ̄ⲡϩⲟ ⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲧϩⲓⲧⲟⲩⲱⲥ ϩⲙ̄ⲡⲙⲁ ⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲛⲁⲃⲱⲕ ⲉⲙⲁⲩ · ⲉϣϫⲉ ⲥⲉ ⲉⲓ̈ⲉ ⲉⲧⲃⲉⲟⲩ ⲉⲣⲉⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲙⲟⲟϣⲉ ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲕⲣⲟϥ · ⲛ̄ⲧⲟ ⲙⲉⲛ ϫⲉϯⲛⲁϫⲱ ⲁⲛ ⲛⲧⲁⲓ̈ ⲛ̄ⲧⲕⲁⲕⲓⲁ ⲉⲧϩⲙ̄ⲡⲁϩⲏⲧ ⲉϩⲟⲩⲛ ⲉⲣⲟⲥ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲉⲓ̈ⲕⲉⲟⲩⲉⲓ ϫⲉⲛ̄ϯⲛⲁⲧⲁⲙⲟ ⲁⲛ ⲉⲡⲁⲙⲟⲥⲧⲉ ⲉⲧϩⲙ̄ⲥ
::
	
	Or again is it in your heart for each one of you to look upon the face of her neighbour in the place whither we shall go? If so, then why does each one of you walk deceitfully? * You, on the one hand, say, ‘I will not tell this one the evil which is in my heart against her’; and this other one says, ‘I will not speak my hatred which is in


.. [*] ⲥ̄ⲗ̄ⲅ̄.

------------------------------------------------

.. [1] Zoega CCXXXVI : ϩⲁⲧⲉⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄.
.. [2] Zoega CCXXXVI : ϫⲓⲛⲛⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲛⲟϭ.
.. [3] Zoega CCXXXVI : ϣⲟⲙⲧ̄.
.. [4] Cf. Mt. 19.28, Mt. 25. 31.
.. [5] Zoega CCXXXVI : ⲉⲓ̈ⲧⲙⲁⲉⲓⲏⲩ.
.. [6] Zoega CCXXXVI adds : ⲅⲁⲣ. 
.. [7] Zoega CCXXXVI : ϫⲉⲙ̄ⲡⲓϯⲥⲟ.
.. [8] Zoega CCXXXVI : ⲉⲉⲓ.
.. [9] Zoega CCXXXVI : ⲛⲁⲩ.
.. [10] Zoega CCXXXVI rightly : ⲉⲧⲃⲉⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄.
.. [11] Zoega CCXXXVI : ⲟⲩⲧⲉ.
.. [12] Cf. Jer. 4. 11. - Zoega CCXXXVI : ⲉⲟⲩⲧⲃ̄ⲃⲟ.
.. [13] ⲕⲁⲧⲁ Zoega CCXXXVI, fol. 2, breaks off.
.. [14] For : ⲉⲧⲉⲙⲉⲩⲡⲉⲣϫ̄ϩⲟⲟⲩⲧ.
.. [15] Cf. I Cor. 3. 13. 
.. [16] Prov. 4. 18. 