
-------------------------------------------------
10. *On Obedience*
-------------------------------------------------


Chapter 01
=========
Paragraph 01
------

[ⲉ]<pb n=ⲩ̄ⲗ̄ⲉ̄/>ⲃⲟⲗ ϫⲉⲁⲩⲛⲁⲩ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩⲩⲡⲟⲧⲁⲥⲥⲉ ⲛ̄ⲛⲉⲧⲟ ⲛ̄ⲛⲟϭ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ · ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲡⲉⲛⲧⲁⲡⲁⲡⲟⲥⲧⲟⲗⲟⲥ ϫⲟⲟϥ ϫⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲧⲛ̄ⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ̈ ⲕⲁⲧⲁⲑⲉ ⲉⲛⲧⲁⲓ̈ⲧⲛ̄ⲧⲱⲛⲧ̄ ⲉⲡⲉⲭ̄ⲥ̄ [1]_ · 
::
	
	because they saw you being subject to those who are greater than yourselves according to that which the apostle has said, ‘Imitate me even as I have imitated Christ'1.

Paragraph 02
------

ⲕⲁⲓ ⲅⲁⲣ ⲁⲩϫⲟⲟⲥ [2]_ ϫⲉⲛⲉⲧⲧⲟⲛⲧⲛ̄ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲟⲩ ⲉⲡⲉⲭ̄ⲥ̄ ϣⲁⲩⲧⲛ̄ⲧ[ⲱ]ⲛⲟⲩ ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲙⲛ̄ⲧϫⲱⲱⲣⲉ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲩϯⲡⲉⲭ̄ⲥ̄ ϣⲁⲩⲧⲛ̄ⲧ[ⲱ]ⲛⲟⲩ ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲙⲛ̄ⲧϫⲱⲱⲣⲉ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛⲉⲛⲧⲁⲩϯⲡⲉⲭ̄ⲥ̄ ϩⲓⲱⲟⲩ [3]_ ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲙⲛ̄ⲧϫⲱⲱⲣⲉ · ϣⲁⲩⲧⲣⲉⲡⲉⲭ̄ⲥ̄ ϫⲓⲙⲟⲣⲫⲏ ⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧⲟⲩ [4]_ ϩⲛ̄ⲃⲓⲟⲥ ⲛⲓⲙ · ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲧⲱϣ ⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧ · ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩϣⲁϫⲉ · ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲁⲛⲁⲥⲧⲣⲟⲫⲏ · ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩϩⲱⲃ · ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩϩⲩⲡⲟⲙⲟⲛⲏ · ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲁⲅⲁⲡⲏ ⲉⲥϫⲏⲕ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ⲉⲡⲛⲟⲩⲧⲉ ·
::
	
	For it has also been said2 ‘Those who imitate Christ, imitate vigorously; and those who have put on Christ3 vigorously, make Christ take form in them4 in all their life, in frame of mind, in speech, in behaviour, in deeds, in constancy, in love perfect towards God’.

Paragraph 03
------

ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ̄ⲧⲱⲧⲛ̄ [ⲛ]ⲉⲥⲛⲏⲩ · ⲥⲱ˻ⲧⲙ̄˼ ⲛ̄ⲥⲁⲛⲉⲧ[ⲛ̄ⲉⲓ]ⲟⲧⲉ ⲉⲧ[ϯⲥⲃ]˻ⲱ˼ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ̄ [ⲕⲁⲧ]ⲁⲡⲛⲟⲩ[ⲧⲉ ϩ]˻ⲛ̄˼ⲙⲛ̄ⲧ[ⲥⲧⲙ]ⲏⲧ ⲛⲓ[ⲙ ϩ]ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩϩⲟⲧ[ⲉ] ⲙⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲥⲧ[ⲱⲧ] ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲙ[ⲛ̄ⲧϩⲁ]ⲡⲗⲟⲩⲥ ⲛ̄[ⲧⲉ]ⲡⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩ[ⲏⲧ] [5]_ ϩⲱⲥ ⲉ[ⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄]ϩ[ⲩ]ⲡⲟ[ⲧⲁⲥⲥⲉ] ⲙ˻ⲡ˼ϫ[ⲟⲉⲓⲥ] ⲛ̄[ⲣⲱⲙⲉ ⲁⲛ] ⲉ[ⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲥⲟ]<pb n="ⲩ̄ⲙ̄"/>ⲟⲩⲛ ϫⲉⲡⲁⲅⲁⲑⲟⲛ ⲉⲧⲉⲣⲉⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲡⲟⲩⲁ ⲁⲩⲱ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲧⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲛⲁⲁⲁϥ. ϥⲛⲁϫⲓⲧϥ̄ ⲉⲃⲟⲗ ϩⲓⲧⲙ̄ⲡϫⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲓ̄ⲥ̄ [6]_ · ⲉⲓⲧⲉ ⲉⲓⲱⲧ · ⲉⲓⲧⲉ ϣⲏⲣⲉ · ⲉⲓⲧⲉ ⲙⲁⲁⲩ ⲉⲓⲧⲉ ϣⲉⲉⲣⲉ ·
::
	
	And you, brethren, obey5 your fathers who [teach] you [according to] God, in all [obedience], in fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart5 as [being subject] to the [Lord, not man], knowing that the good which each man and each' woman shall do he shall receive from the Lord Jesus6, whether father, or son, or mother, or daughter.

Paragraph 04
------

ⲡⲁⲡⲟⲥⲧⲟⲗⲟ[ⲥ ⲇ]ⲉ ⲟⲛ ϫⲱ ⲙ̄˻ⲙ˼ⲟⲥ ϫⲉⲧ[ⲛ̄ⲥⲟ]ⲡⲥ ⲇⲉ ⲙ̄˻ⲙ˼[ⲱ]ⲧⲛ̄ ⲛⲉⲥ˻ⲛ˼[ⲏⲩ ⲉ]ⲥⲟⲩⲛ̄ⲛ[ⲉⲧϩⲟⲥ]ⲉ ⲛ̄ϩⲏ˻ⲧ˼[ⲧⲏ]˻ⲩ˼[ⲧⲛ̄] ⲁⲩ˻ⲱ˼ ⲉⲧ[ⲡⲣ]˻ⲟ˼ϩⲓⲥⲧⲁ ⲉ[ⲣⲱ]˻ⲧ˼ⲛ̄ ϩⲙ̄ⲡϫⲟ[ⲉⲓⲥ] ⲁⲩⲱ ⲉⲧ[ϯⲥⲃ]ⲱ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ̄ · [ⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲧ]ⲛ̄ⲕⲁⲁⲩ [ⲛ̄ⲛⲁϩⲣ]ⲏⲧ[ⲛ̄] [ϩⲛ̄ⲟⲩϩ]˻ⲟ˼ⲩ[ⲟ ϩⲛ̄ⲧⲁⲅⲁⲡⲏ] ⲉ[ⲧⲃⲉⲡⲉⲩϩⲱⲃ] [7]_ · 
::
	
	The apostle also says, ‘But we beseech you, brethren, to know [those that labour] among [you] and preside over you in the Lord and [teach] you, and to esteem them [highly in love because of their work] ’7.

Paragraph 05
------

ⲉⲧⲃⲉⲡⲁⲓ̈ ⲣⲟⲉⲓⲥ ⲙ̄ⲡⲣ̄ⲧⲣⲉⲛⲥⲱⲧⲙ̄ ϫⲉⲁⲟⲩⲉⲓ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲏ ⲟⲩⲟⲩⲁ [8]_ ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲛ ⲣ̄ⲁⲧⲥⲱⲧⲙ̄ ⲛ̄ⲥⲁⲛⲉⲧϯⲥⲃⲱ ⲛⲏⲧⲛ̄ ⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲡⲉⲛϩⲏⲧ ⲙ̄ⲕⲁϩ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲗⲩⲡⲉⲓ ⲙ̄ⲙⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲙⲁⲩⲁⲧⲧⲏⲩⲧⲛ̄ · ˻ⲁ˼ⲩⲱ ⲁⲛⲟⲛ ϩⲱⲱⲛ ⲟⲛ ⲛ̄ⲧⲛ̄ⲙ̄ⲕⲁϩ ⲛ̄ϩⲏⲧ ˻ϩ˼ⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲗⲩⲡⲏ · [ⲛ̄]ⲑⲉ ⲉⲛⲧⲁⲡⲁⲡⲟⲥⲧⲟⲗⲟⲥ ϫⲟⲟⲥ · ϫⲉⲙⲏⲡⲟⲧⲉ ⲛ̄ⲧⲁⲉⲓ ϣⲁⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲛ̄ⲧⲁϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲱⲧⲛ̄ ⲛ̄ⲑⲉ ⲛ̄ϯⲟⲩⲁϣⲥ̄ ⲁⲛ · ⲁⲩⲱ ⲛ̄ⲧⲉⲧⲛ̄ϩⲉ ⲉⲣⲟⲓ̈ ⲛ̄ⲑⲉ ⲉⲛ˻ⲧ˼ⲉⲧⲛ̄ⲟⲩⲁϣⲧ [ⲙ̄ⲙⲟⲥ ⲁⲛ] [9]_ 
::
	
	Therefore, be vigilant, do not let us hear that any woman of you or any man of us has disobeyed those who teach you, that our heart be saddened,  and you grieve yourselves and we  * p. 22 too be grievously saddened. As the apostle has said, ‘Lest by any means I should come to you and find you not as I wish, and you should find me [not] as you wish me’8.

-------------------
..[1] I Cor. 11. 1.
..[2] For the following quotation, cf. I Pseudo-Clementine De Virginitate, VII, see L. Th. Lefort, 'Une citation copte de la la Pseudo-clémentine « De virginitate » *Bulletin de l'lnstitut français d’archeologie orientate*, 30, pp. 509 ff. ; see also **L. Th. Lefort**, *Les Peres Apostoliques en copte*, Louvain, 1952, CSCO, 135 / Copt.17, p. 40, and 136 / *Copt.18*, p. 34.
..[3] Cf. Gal. 3. 27, Rom. 13.14.
..[4] Cf. Gal. 4. 19.
..[5] Cf. Eph. 6. 5.
..[6] Cf. Eph. 6. 7-8.
..[7] I Thes. 5. 12-13.
..[8] Read ; ⲟⲩⲁ.
..[9] II Cor. 12. 20.
